MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 12
 MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES,
 HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS
 AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 Background
 The rules in this section are designed to ensure that marketing communications for
 medicines, medical devices, treatments, health-related products and beauty products receive
 the necessary high level of scrutiny. The rules apply to marketing communications and not the
 products, which are regulated by health regulators such as the Medicines and Healthcare
 products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), 
www.mhra.gov.uk, Veterinary Medicines Directorate
 (VMD), 
Care, 
www.vmd.defra.gov.uk, and the Department of Health and Social
 www.dh.gov.uk. Marketing communications for those products must comply with the
 rules and professional codes of conduct of relevant professional bodies.
 Scope
 The rules in the first part of this section apply to all marketing communications for medicines,
 medical devices, treatments, health-related products and beauty products. The rules in
 subsequent parts apply to marketing communications for specific products and/or services. If
 relevant, the rules in this section also apply to claims for products for animals.
 As they could apply to medicinal products for human use, the rules should be read in
 conjunction with the relevant sections of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 (as
 amended). This is particularly the case in relation to the definition of a marketing
 communication. Rules in this section apply to marketing communications, as set out in the
 Scope of the Code, that are also subject to the Regulations. Other activities defined as
 advertising in the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 that are outside the remit of the Code,
 specifically those listed in Regulation 7(2), are not covered by this section.
 As they could apply to medicines for veterinary use, the rules should be read in conjunction
 with the Veterinary Medicines Regulations. For more information about how veterinary
 medicines can be advertised, please refer to:
 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/legal-controls-on-veterinary-medicines.
 Law
 Title VIII of European Directive 2001/83/EC (as amended) concerns "The Advertising of
 Medicinal Products for Human Use" and has been implemented in the UK by the Human
 Medicines Regulations 2012. The ASA is obliged to consider complaints about breaches of
 Regulations 286 to 290, which have been incorporated into these rules. With the introduction
 of new or changed products, diverse licensing requirements and changes in medical opinion,
 2
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 this Code cannot provide a complete guide to all requirements for health claims or the
 advertising of products or classes of medicines and treatments.
 Advertisements for products subject to licensing under the Human Medicines Regulations
 2012 (as amended) must comply with the requirements of the Regulations and any conditions
 contained in the marketing authorisation, certificate, licence or traditional herbal registration
 for the advertised product.
 For more information on medicinal products and treatments, see the MHRA's guidance, The
 Blue Guide: Advertising and promotion of medicines in the UK at:
 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/blue-guide-advertising-and-promoting-medicines.
 The rules governing the advertising of medicines, treatments, medical devices and health
 claims are set out below; they apply also to advertisements for veterinary products and
 services. Directive 2001/82/EC on the Community code relating to veterinary medicinal
 products (as amended by Directive 2004/28/EC), which has been implemented in the UK via
 The Veterinary Medicines Regulations, contains provisions relating to the advertising of such
 products. The Veterinary Medicines Regulations are revoked and remade regularly.  For more
 information about how veterinary medicines can be advertised, please refer to:
 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/legal-controls-on-veterinary-medicines.
 In Great Britain, medical devices are currently regulated under the 
Medical Devices
 Regulations 2002 (SI 2002 No 618, as amended) (UK MDR 2002), which transpose into UK
 law, the directives: Directive 90/385/EEC on active implantable medical devices; Directive
 93/42/EEC on medical devices; and Directive 98/79/EC on in vitro diagnostic medical devices.
 Under the terms of the Northern Ireland Protocol following the UK’s withdrawal from the
 European Union on 31 January 2020, certain products on the Northern Ireland market,
 including medical devices, are required to comply with relevant EU legislation as well as with
 UK law.  The EU Medical Devices Regulation (2017/745) took effect in Northern Ireland,
 subject to transitional provisions, on 26 May 2021; the EU in vitro Diagnostics Medical
 Devices Regulation (2017/746) took effect in Northern Ireland from 26 May 2022.
 The MHRA is the body responsible for ensuring medical devices in the UK meet the
 applicable standards of safety, quality and efficacy. From 1 July 2023, medical devices placed
 on the Great Britain market will be required to bear a UK Conformity Assessed (UKCA)
 marking to attest that they conform to the regulatory requirements. Manufacturers can affix a
 UKCA marking on a voluntary basis ahead of this date so long as the relevant regulatory
 3
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 requirements have been met. Where third party conformity assessment is required for the
 UKCA marking, a UK Approved Body must be used. Devices that have been CE marked in
 conformance with the relevant EU legislation will be unilaterally accepted on the Great Britain
 market until 30 June 2023. Where third party conformity assessment is required for the CE
 marking, an EU-recognised Notified Body must be used. The UKCA marking is valid in Great
 Britain only and a CE marking continues to be required for the Northern Ireland market.  For
 more information about the transitional arrangements relating to conformity marking, please
 refer to the following MHRA guidance: 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/regulating-medical
devices-in-the-uk.
 Marketers are strongly urged to take legal advice about relevant requirements applicable,
 including conformity marking and third party conformity assessment bodies, for medical
 devices placed on the markets for Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and to have due regard
 to available guidance from the MHRA, including the following:
 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/regulating-medical-devices-in-the-uk
 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/medical-devices-eu-regulations-for-mdr-and-ivdr
 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/medical-devices-conformity-assessment-and-the-ukca-mark
 Definition
 For the purposes of this Code, "licence" includes certificate, authorisation or registration.
 "Applicable conformity marking" means conformity marking required by legislation set out
 earlier this section, under "Law". 
For more information, see CAP Help Notes, especially those on: 
Beauty and Slimming Claims; 
Substantiation for Health,
 Health, Beauty and Slimming Advertisements that Refer to
 Medical Conditions; 
Rules
 12.1
 Cosmetic Surgery Marketing and 
Use of Experts by the ASA and CAP.
 Objective claims must be backed by evidence, if relevant consisting of trials
 conducted on people. Substantiation will be assessed on the basis of the
 available scientific knowledge.
 Medicinal or medical claims and indications may be made for a medicinal
 product that is licensed by the MHRA, VMD or under the auspices of the EMA,
 or for a medical device with the applicable conformity marking. A medicinal
 4
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 claim is a claim that a product or its constituent(s) can be used with a view to
 making a medical diagnosis or can treat or prevent disease, including an injury,
 ailment or adverse condition, whether of body or mind, in human beings.
 Secondary medicinal claims made for cosmetic products as defined in the
 appropriate European legislation must be backed by evidence. These are
 limited to any preventative action of the product and may not include claims to
 treat disease.
 12.2
 12.2.1
 12.3
 12.4
 12.5
 Marketers must not discourage essential treatment for conditions for which
 medical supervision should be sought. For example, they must not offer specific
 advice on, diagnosis of or treatment for such conditions unless that advice,
 diagnosis or treatment is conducted under the supervision of a suitably qualified
 health professional. Accurate and responsible general information about such
 conditions may, however, be offered (see rule 12.11).
 Health professionals will be deemed suitably qualified only if they can provide
 suitable credentials, for example, evidence of: relevant professional expertise or
 qualifications; systems for regular review of members' skills and competencies
 and suitable professional indemnity insurance covering all services provided;
 accreditation by a professional or regulatory body that has systems for dealing
 with complaints and taking disciplinary action and has registration based on
 minimum standards for training and qualifications.
 Marketing communications for medicinal products must not offer to provide a
 diagnosis or suggest a treatment by correspondence, for instance, by post, by
 e-mail or by other means of an electronic communications network.
 Marketers offering individual treatments, especially those that are physically
 invasive, may be asked by the media and the ASA to provide full details
 together with information about those who supervise and administer them.
 Practitioners must have relevant and recognised qualifications. Marketers
 should encourage consumers to take independent medical advice before
 committing themselves to significant treatments, including those that are
 physically invasive.
 Marketers must not confuse consumers by using unfamiliar scientific words for
 common conditions.
 Marketers inviting consumers to diagnose their minor ailments must not make
 claims that might lead to a mistaken diagnosis.
 5
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 12.6
 12.7
 12.8
 12.9
 12.10
 Medicines
 Marketers should not falsely claim that a product is able to cure illness,
 dysfunction or malformations.
 This rule is affected by the UCP provisions that revoke and replace the CPRs.
 Please see note 
here for more details.
 References to the relief of symptoms or the superficial signs of ageing are
 acceptable if they can be substantiated. Unqualified claims such as "cure" and
 "rejuvenation" are not generally acceptable, especially for cosmetic products.
 Marketers must hold proof before claiming or implying that a minor addiction or
 a bad habit can be treated without effort from those suffering.
 Marketers must not encourage consumers to use a product to excess and must
 hold proof before suggesting their product or therapy is guaranteed to work,
 absolutely safe or without side-effects (subject to rule 12.19).
 Marketing communications must not suggest that any product is safe or
 effective merely because it is "natural" or that it is generally safer because it
 omits an ingredient in common use.
 Title VIII of European Directive 2001/83/EC (as amended) concerns "The Advertising of
 Medicinal Products for Human Use" and has been implemented in the UK by the Human
 Medicines Regulations 2012 (as amended). Advertisements for products subject to licensing
 under the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 must comply with the requirements of the
 Regulations and any conditions contained in the marketing authorisation, certificate, licence
 or traditional herbal registration for the advertised product.
 For more information on the advertising of medicinal products, see the MHRA's guidance, The
 Blue Guide: Advertising and promotion of medicines in the UK at:
 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/blue-guide-advertising-and-promoting-medicines.
 For more information on medical treatments, go to: 
www.cqc.org.uk.
 Advertisements for products subject to authorisation under the Veterinary Medicines
 Regulations must comply with the requirements of the Regulations and any conditions
 contained in the marketing authorisation, certificate or registration for the advertised product.
 6
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 For more information about how veterinary medicines can be advertised, please refer to:
 h
 ttps://www.gov.uk/guidance/legal-controls-on-veterinary-medicines.
 12.11
 12.12
 12.13
 12.14
 12.14.1
 12.14.2
 12.14.3
 12.14.4
 Medicines must have a licence from the MHRA, VMD or under the auspices of
 the EMA before they are marketed. Marketing communications for medicines
 must conform with the licence and the product's summary of product
 characteristics. For the avoidance of doubt, by conforming with the product's
 indicated use, a marketing communication would not breach rule 12.2.
 Marketing communications must not suggest that a product is "special" or
 "different" because it has been granted a licence by the MHRA, VMD or under
 the auspices of the EMA.
 Prescription-only medicines or prescription-only medical treatments may not be
 advertised to the public.
 Marketing communications which include a product claim for a medicinal
 product (including legible on-pack product claims within a pack shot) must
 include the name of the product, an indication of what it is for, text such as
 "Always read the label" and the common name of the sole active ingredient, if it
 contains only one.
 Marketing communications for a traditional herbal medicinal product or a
 homeopathic medicinal product must include mandatory information, which can
 be found in the MHRA's guidance, The Blue Guide: Advertising and promotion
 of medicines in the UK at:
 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/blue-guide-advertising-and
promoting-medicines.
 Marketing Communications for medicinal products must not:
 use, in improper, alarming or misleading terms, images of changes in the
 human body caused by disease, injury or a medicinal product
 refer, in improper, alarming or misleading terms, to claims of recovery
 suggest that using or avoiding a product can affect normal health
 present a description or detailed representation of a case history that might lead
 to erroneous self-diagnosis.
 7
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 12.15
 12.16
 12.17
 12.18
 12.19
 12.20
 12.21
 Cosmetics
 12.22
 12.22.1
 Illustrations of the effect or action of a product should be accurate.
 Marketing communications for a medicine must not be addressed to children.
 Marketers must not suggest that a medicinal product is either a food or a
 cosmetic.
 Marketers must not use health professionals or celebrities to endorse
 medicines.
 Marketing communications for a medicine may not claim that its effects are
 guaranteed, that it is absolutely safe or without side-effects or as good as or
 better than those of another identifiable product.
 Homeopathic medicinal products must be registered in the UK. Any product
 information given in the marketing communication should be confined to what
 appears on the label.  Marketing communications must include a warning to
 consult a doctor if symptoms persist. Marketing communications for an
 unlicensed product must not make a medicinal or therapeutic claim or refer to
 an ailment unless authorised by the MHRA to do so.
 Marketers of traditional herbal medicines may advertise for the indications listed
 in the product's summary of product characteristics and must include
 mandatory information, which can be found in the MHRA's guidance, The Blue
 Guide: Advertising and promotion of medicines in the UK at:
 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/blue-guide-advertising-and
promoting-medicines.
 Marketing communications for products that hold a Traditional Herbal Medicines
 Registration must not imply that registration is based upon clinical trials.
 Claims made about the action that a cosmetic has on or in the skin should
 distinguish between the composition of the product and any effects brought
 about by the way in which it is applied, such as massage. Scientific evidence
 must also make that distinction.
 Some cosmetics have an effect on the type of skin changes that are caused by
 environmental factors. Marketing communications for them may therefore refer
 to temporarily preventing, delaying or masking premature ageing.
 8
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing
MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES, HEALTH-RELATED PRODUCTS AND BEAUTY PRODUCTS
 Hair and Scalp
 12.23
 Marketers must be able to provide scientific evidence, if relevant consisting of
 trials conducted on people, for any claim that their product or therapy can
 prevent baldness or slow it down, arrest or reverse hair loss, stimulate or
 improve hair growth, nourish hair roots, strengthen the hair or improve its health
 as distinct from its appearance.
 Services offering advice on unplanned pregnancy
 12.24
 Marketing communications for services offering advice on unplanned
 pregnancy must make clear if the service does not refer women directly for a
 termination. Given that terminations are lawful only in some circumstances, and
 are subject to particularly stringent requirements in Northern Ireland, marketers
 may wish to seek legal advice.
 Cosmetic interventions
 12.25
 Marketing communications for cosmetic interventions must not be directed at
 those aged below 18 years through the selection of media or context in which
 they appear.  
Cosmetic interventions mean any intervention, procedure or treatment carried
 out with the primary objective of changing an aspect of a consumer’s physical
 appearance. This includes surgical and non-surgical interventions, both
 invasive and non-invasive. This does not include cosmetic products as defined
 in Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009. See Advertising Guidance: 
Interventions.
 Cosmetic
 9
 The UK Code of Non-broadcast Advertising and Direct & Promotional Marketing