JANUARY 2025 
GUIDELINES FOR CLAIMS AND  
CLAIMS SUBSTANTIATION OF  
HEALTH SUPPLEMENTS  
AND TRADITIONAL MEDICINES 
Guidelines Version 4 
The information in these Guidelines may be updated from time-to-time. For the 
latest version of the Guidelines, please refer to our website at www.hsa.gov.sg. 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
Content: 
1. Introduction 
2. Health Claims 
3. Substantiation Requirements for Claims 
4. List of Health Claims 
5. General Principles for Claims 
6. References  
Appendix 1 – Health Claims Assessment Checklist  
Page 
3 
3 
4 
5 
6 
10 
11 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 2 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
1. 
1.1  
1.2 
2. 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
Introduction 
Dealers of health supplements (HS), traditional medicines (TM), medicated oils, 
balms (MOB) and medicated plasters are required to ensure that health claims 
made for their products are consistent with the scope of a HS, TM, MOB or 
medicated plaster respectively and are substantiated with evidence. 
The objective of these guidelines is to provide guidance on the health claims 
that are allowed for use in these products in Singapore, as well as the evidence 
that is required to substantiate these claims.  
Health Claims  
A health claim refers to any message or representation in relation to its 
indications, health benefits or action. Claims may be stated through, but not 
limited to, the following: 
• product label 
• advertisements  
• point of sales materials 
• product brochures  
Health claims made must be consistent with the scope of a HS, TM, MOB or 
medicated plaster respectively. 
Health claims in HS should be limited to supporting or enhancing general health, 
or a function or biological activity of the body. They must not be labelled, 
advertised or promoted for the diagnosis, prevention, alleviation, treatment or 
cure, implied or otherwise, of any disease, disorder, or medical condition. 
• Some examples are support healthy growth and development, relieve 
fatigue/tiredness, 
support/maintain 
support/maintain immune health. 
joint 
mobility/flexibility 
and 
• Vitamin and/or mineral supplementation claims are permitted only when the 
relevant vitamin and mineral used in the product contains at least 15% of the 
Codex Nutrient Reference Values (NRVs) published by Codex Alimentarius 
or local Recommended Dietary Allowance1 (RDA) values published by the 
Health Promotion Board, per daily dose of the vitamin and/or mineral.  
The health claims in TM should be: 
• limited to supporting and enhancing health;  
• for managing or symptomatic relief of non-serious medical conditions, e.g. 
cough, cold, diarrhoea; and 
• not directly or indirectly referring to the prevention, alleviation, treatment or 
cure of any of the 19 diseases or conditions specified in the First Schedule 
of Medicines Act. 
1Health Promotion Board Recommended Dietary Allowances for Normal Healthy Persons in Singapore (Adults) 
(https://www.healthhub.sg/live-healthy/192/recommended_dietary_allowances) 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 3 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
2.4 
3. 
3.1 
3.2 
3.3 
Health claims in MOB and medicated plasters should be limited to soothing 
purposes, e.g. relief of pain, aches, itch, minor swelling, bruises, minor cuts 
and burns.  
Substantiation Requirements for Claims  
All health claims must be substantiated by evidence that is relevant to the 
claims. Evidence may be based on finished products. If such evidence is not 
available, evidence based on ingredients may be used. The evidence should 
be held by the dealer at all times and provided to Health Sciences Authority 
(HSA) when requested. HSA may request for justification if it is not clear how 
the evidence is related to the claims on the product. 
The substantiating evidence could be based on the information listed in Table 
1 below. TM claims must be in line with the respective TM principles (such as 
Jamu, Ayurvedic Medicine) and supported by adequate evidence from TM
based references. 
Table 1: Substantiation Evidence for Health Claims 
Literature and Regulatory Evidence for General, Functional and 
Traditional Treatment Health Claims  
• Literature references supporting health use: 
▪ European Scientific Cooperative on Phytotherapy Monographs for 
Herbal Medicinal Plants 
▪ The Complete German Commission E Monographs 
▪ Indian Materia Medica 
▪ Handbook of Ayurvedic Medicinal Plants 
▪ British Pharmacopoeia 
▪ British Herbal Pharmacopoeia 
▪ Chinese Pharmacopoeia  
▪ European Pharmacopoeia 
▪ United States Pharmacopeia 
▪ World Health Organisation’s Monographs on Selected Medicinal 
Plants  
▪ Dictionary of Chinese Pharmacy <中药大辞典> 
• Product monograph or assessment from the following regulatory 
authorities or scientific bodies/institutions:  
▪ European Food Safety Authority 
▪ Health Canada  
▪ Therapeutic Goods Administration  
▪ FDA Significant Scientific Assessments on Authorised Health Claims 
If the evidence based on published references is not available for claims relating 
to general, functional and traditional treatment claims, scientific evidence from 
human studies may be used. Scientific data could be derived from observational 
or interventional human studies that are well-designed in accordance with 
recognised scientific principles. The acceptable principles for human studies 
can be referenced from internationally accepted guidelines, for example, 
International Conference on Harmonisation - Good Clinical Practice Guidelines.  
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 4 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
3.4 
3.5 
3.6 
4. 
4.1 
4.2 
4.3 
4.4 
4.5 
Information from open internet sources such as Google, WebMD, Wikipedia, 百
度百科, product websites and blogs, personal testimonials or endorsements, 
and solely animal or in-vitro studies would not be considered as acceptable 
evidence to substantiate claims.  
TM can make claims on symptomatic relief for non-serious medical conditions. 
To ensure consumers do not delay in seeking appropriate treatment should 
their symptoms persist, TM with claims on symptomatic relief of non-serious 
medical conditions (e.g. cough, cold, diarrhoea) would be required to include 
the statement “If symptoms persist, talk to your healthcare professional” on the 
product label. 
Dealers must ensure that they meet the labelling requirements as laid out in the 
Guidelines for Labelling Requirements for HS and TM. 
List of Health Claims 
The HSA has compiled a comprehensive list of health claims allowed for use 
in HS, TM, MOB and medicated plasters that can be accessed from this link: 
https://www.hsa.gov.sg/docs/default-source/hprg-tmhs/chpb
tmhs/tmhs_claims_list.pdf. 
These claims are referenced from overseas regulatory agencies that have 
been assessed to be substantiated by documented evidence. 
The same wording of the claim(s) should be reflected on the product label. 
However, variations to the wordings used can be accepted, as detailed below.  
In general, all health claims have an action and a target. The action describes 
the effect of the ingredient or product, while the target is either a function, 
biological activity, physiological process or a non-serious medical condition.  
Examples of ‘action’: support, improve, help, relieve 
Examples of ‘target’: immune system, joint health, blood circulation, cough/cold 
Dealers may use action variants for the health claims stated in the list, provided 
the criteria for claims are adhered to and the claim can be supported by 
evidence. Acceptable action variants are listed below:  
• Aid/assist/help 
• Maintain/support/contribute to 
• Nourish/supplement 
• Tonify 
• Decrease/reduce/relieve 
• Increase/enhance/improve/promote 
The use of variants must not change the intended meaning of the claim. The 
claim must still be consistent with the scope of a HS, TM, MOB or medicated 
plaster respectively. Should the qualifier “may” be used in health claims, dealers 
should ensure that evidence is held to substantiate the health claim made 
accordingly. 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 5 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
Examples of Permitted and Not Permitted Action Variants 
Claim 
Variation 
✓   Promote healthy libido 
 Increase libido 
Support healthy libido 
Support hormone 
production 
    Enhance hormone production 
Support blood sugar 
levels 
✓   Maintain blood sugar levels in healthy adults 
    Reduce blood sugar levels 
Relieve symptoms of 
cold 
✓   Traditionally used to decrease/reduce    
symptoms of cold 
4.6 
4.7 
5. 
5.1 
Terms that qualify the scope of the action or target for a specific period or 
population may be included as qualifiers, to provide context to the said claim.  
Examples of Qualifiers 
Qualifier (Degree)  
Qualifier (Period) 
Mild, symptoms of, general 
Temporarily, short-term use,  
for the duration of 
Qualifier (Population) 
Healthy adults, infants, children, elderly 
Qualifier (Traditional context 
for TM) 
Traditionally used to 
Dealers can submit a request to HSA for new claims to be added to the existing 
list of claims using this form. Dealers are to ensure that the proposed new claim 
meets the Criteria for Claims stated in paragraph 2.2 and 2.3 above. Dealers 
may refer to Appendix 1, the Health Claims Assessment Checklist, for self
assessment to ensure that the new claim they wish to submit for inclusion into 
the list is suitable and meets the criteria for claims. Dealers would have to 
submit the substantiation evidence as laid out in Table 1 above and the 
completed Appendix 1, for review by HSA.  
General Principles for Claims 
The following reflects general principles that must be adhered to so that product 
claims do not convey misleading messages that could lead to inappropriate use 
of the product or bring about undue harm to the public. 
5.1.1 Truthfulness  
All claims should truthfully state the nature, quality and properties of the 
product. Claims on any product materials, including packaging and 
advertisements, should not mislead in any way by ambiguity, exaggeration, 
omission or otherwise imply that the product has properties and benefits beyond 
that of itself. Unqualified superlatives must not be used. 
Claims in the form of slogans, taglines, headlines, which, because of brevity or 
for any other reason, are capable of being misinterpreted; and may mislead as 
to the nature, quality and properties of the product and therefore should be 
avoided. 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 6 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
5.1.2 Use of Scientific Data 
Dealers should not use information such as research results or extract partial 
out-of-context quotations from technical and scientific publications to imply a 
greater validity than the product can provide for the general population. 
The use of terms such as “Proven by Clinical Trials” and “Clinically Proven” are 
not allowed if there is an implied claim to treatment efficacy in relation to disease 
or an adverse condition or that the product has met the appropriate efficacy test 
in relation to a disease or an adverse condition.   
5.1.3 Endorsements from Healthcare Professionals 
Product should not be labelled, advertised or promoted to give the impression 
that the claims represent advice or recommendations from healthcare 
professionals.  
5.1.4 Testimonials 
Testimonials by healthcare professionals should not be used on the product 
label, advertisement or promotion of the product. 
Product materials, including labels and advertisements, should not contain 
recommendations or endorsement from celebrity figures, or give the impression 
of advice or support from a celebrity.  
If testimonials are used, they must be current, genuine, authenticated, for 
example, via signed testimonials. Dealers must also hold substantiation that 
such testimonials reflect the typical experience of the ordinary user. 
Testimonials that are of exceptional experiences (i.e. which do not reflect the 
experience that an average user of the product would ordinarily expect to have) 
should not be used. 
5.1.5 Claims related to Traditional Use 
HS should not be labelled, advertised or promoted in such a way that potentially 
misleads the general public into believing that the product relates to any 
traditional healing paradigm, such as being a TM, when it is not intended as a 
TM. 
5.1.6 Logos, Initials and Trademarks 
It is the responsibility of companies to ensure they have the permission of the 
firm, company or institution prior to using the names, initials, logos or trade 
service marks from the concerned firm, company or institution on their product 
label, advertisements and promotional materials. The names and logos of the 
HSA and any of its professional groups must not be used for any product 
materials including label, packaging, advertisement and sales promotion in any 
media (print, sound and light & sound).   
5.1.7 Discourage from Seeking of Medical Advice or Appropriate Use of 
Medication 
Claims on label, advertisement or promotion should not in any way create an 
impression that the public need not seek the advice of a medical professional 
or replace medication prescribed by their medical doctor.  
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 7 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
5.1.8 Exploitation of Fear  
Claims on label, advertisement or promotion should not arouse fear in the minds 
of the public nor should they exploit the public’s superstition. 
5.1.9 Definitive Efficacy, Superiority or Safety  
The product must not contain any implication that it is infallible, unfailing, 
magical, miraculous, or that it guarantees definitive efficacy or safety. It should 
also not claim that there are no side effects or is effective in all cases or 
situations. The claims must not imply superiority over therapeutic drugs or 
medication or encourage indiscriminate, unnecessary or excessive use of the 
product.  
There should not be any words, phrases, or illustrations which claim or imply 
the product has no adverse effects; 100% safe or suggest that the safety of the 
product is the result of it being a “natural product”. 
5.1.10 Substitution of a Proper Diet or Lifestyle 
The claims must not cast doubt on the nutritional properties of food. They must 
not imply that a balanced and varied diet cannot provide adequate quantities of 
nutrients, which can only be obtained from supplementation with health 
products. It should also not imply that consumption of the product can substitute 
a healthy lifestyle.  
5.1.11 Reference to Stress 
Claims should not imply that the use of a particular product helps to 
prevent/reduce the stress of modern living, which may be caused by external 
events or situations, or personal attitudes or expectations. However, a health 
product may assist in the management of stress, such as by means of providing 
nutritional support.  
5.1.12 Reference to Performance in Studies  
Claims should not imply that the consumption of a particular product can 
improve performance in studies, make a person smarter or improve one’s IQ. 
5.1.13 Reference to Anti-aging  
There should not be any direct or indirect suggestion that a particular product 
can prevent, retard or reverse the physiological changes and degenerative 
conditions brought about by or associated with aging. 
5.1.14 Reference to Sexual Function 
There should not be any direct or indirect suggestion that a product can 
improve, increase or manage sexual virility or manage conditions related to 
sexual dysfunction, such as premature ejaculation and erectile dysfunction. 
5.1.15 Reference to Hormonal Levels 
There must not be any claims that a product can increase, decrease, balance 
or manage hormone levels or its production. The general public would not be 
aware of their hormonal levels and their appropriate levels.  Increasing or 
decreasing hormone levels above or below the specific individual’s 
requirements can have undesirable health effects. The management of 
hormonal levels should be under the supervision of medical professionals.  
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 8 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
5.1.16 Reference to Reduction or Management of Blood Sugar Levels   
There must not be any direct or indirect suggestion that a product can lower or 
raise blood sugar or glucose levels outside the normal healthy range in an 
individual. The product must also not make reference to use in pre-diabetic or 
diabetic individuals, or those predisposed to this condition. It should not refer to 
blood sugar biomarker terminology such as insulin or HbA1C, which cannot be 
well-understood by the general public. 
5.1.17 Language  
Claims should be written in simple-to-understand language. The use of 
confusing jargons and scientific terms should be avoided.  Examples of such 
terms would be “nanoclusters” and “pharmaceutical grade”. 
Product names, in the context of the other claims, may collectively infer the use 
of the product for a purpose to prevent, manage, treat a disease or condition 
e.g. GlucoTreat and CholCure. Such product names should not be used. 
5.1.18 Conformance with SCAP 
The Singapore Code of Advertising Practice (SCAP) regulates all local 
advertising activities. It is administered by the Advertising Standards Authority 
of Singapore Council for Consumers Association of Singapore. All product 
advertisements must also comply with the SCAP guidelines, where applicable.  
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 9 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
6. 
6.1 
6.2 
6.3 
6.4 
6.5 
6.6 
References 
ASEAN Guidelines on Claims and Claims Substantiation for Health 
Supplements 
ASEAN Guidelines on Claims and Claims Substantiation for Traditional 
Medicines 
European Food Safety Authority - Register of Nutrition and Health Authorised 
Claims 
Health Canada – Natural Health Product Ingredient Monographs 
Singapore Food Agency – A Guide to Food Labelling and Advertisements 
Therapeutic Goods Administration – Permitted Indications for Listed Medicines 
Guidance and Permissible Indications List 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 10 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM Jan 2025  
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP Page 11 of 13 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Health Claims Assessment Checklist 
 
Please choose the appropriate response to the questions/statements based on 
your proposed health claim.  
 
Questions Yes No 
1. Does the claim contain an action, e.g. support, aid, relieve?   
2. Does the claim contain a target, e.g. joint health, cough/cold?   
3. Is the claim pertaining to the use of the product in humans only?   
4. The claim does not directly or indirectly refer to any of the 19 
diseases or conditions stated in the Medicines Act. 
  
5. Is the claim for one of the following:  
• Supporting/enhancing health? 
• Supporting/enhancing physiological function/ biological 
activity in the human body? 
• Managing symptomatic relief of non-serious medical 
conditions, e.g. cough, cold, diarrhoea? 
  
6. For HS only 
The claim does not directly or indirectly imply use for a specific 
medicinal purpose, i.e. the treatment or prevention or any 
disease or disorder, including its related conditions. 
  
7. For TM only 
If the claim is referring to a disease or condition, is the disease 
or condition self-diagnosable or self-manageable such that it 
does not require regular supervision by a medical 
professional?  
  
8. For MOB or medicated plasters only 
The claim is indicated for soothing purposes, and does not 
imply treatment or prevention of any disease or condition. 
  
9. Is the phrasing of the claim consistent with the relevant paradigm 
(scientific or traditional use) of the product?  
  
10. Can the claim be substantiated with the required evidence based 
on Table 1 above? 
  
11. Is the claim truthful and not misleading the consumer in any way, 
based on the General Principles for Claims listed in Section 5 
above? 
  
If you have responded with a NO to any of the questions or statements 
numbered 1 to 11, the claim is NOT SUITABLE for use as a health claim in a 
HS, TM, MOB or medicated plaster. You may wish to reassess the information 
related to the claim before going through the checklist again. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
Revision History 
Version Date of 
publication 
Summary of changes* 
1 
March 2022 
New document 
2 
July 2022 
Included new health claim request form weblink 
3 
July 2023 
Included medicated oils, balms and medicated 
plasters 
4 
January 2025 
Updated new health claim request form weblink 
*Editorial changes are not reflected 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 12 of 13 
Guidelines for Claims and Claims Substantiation of HS and TM 
Jan 2025  
Contact information 
Complementary Health Products Branch 
Medicinal Products Pre-Market Cluster 
Health Products Regulation Group 
Health Sciences Authority 
11 Biopolis Way 
Singapore 138667 
www.hsa.gov.sg 
Email: HSA_CHP@hsa.gov.sg 
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY – HEALTH PRODUCTS REGULATION GROUP 
Page 13 of 13 